# Bioinformatics "lite" for undergraduates!
The Genome Analysis course introduces students to basic bioinformatic tools for analyzing sequencing data. Since many bioinformatics analyses involve tools written for the command line, students learn to navigate a UNIX-style environment and get comfortable writing simple bash scripts, and accessing and downloading genomic data from various sources. They are next introduced to Northeastern's high-performance computing cluster so that they will have the computing power and space to work with actual sequencing data, some of which comes from Northeastern research labs. They will gain experience using programs to assess the quality of sequencing reads, index genomes, align reads, call variants, and generate read counts tables. They will learn to operate in RStudio, where they will perform differential gene expression (DGE) analysis with RNA-seq data and generate various associated plots, such as PCA plots, dispersion plots, and heatmaps. They will then use the "ape" package in RStudio to generate a phylogenetic tree of a gene-of-interest from the DGE results. 

Because this course is still new, it is being offered under BIOL3411: Special Topics in Molecular and Cellular Biology, with the subtitle being either: Applied Sequence Analysis Protocols OR Principles and Methods of Genome Analysis.

The course is designed to prepare students interested in a computational/bioinformatics path to take a computational project lab rather than Biology Project Lab (BIOL2309). In the computational project lab, students will design and carry out their own research project, just as in Biology Project Lab, but using bioinformatics/computational tools instead of pipettors!

## Course material
The material for the course is arranged in six repositories that are currently still under construction. See the syllabus in this repository for descriptions of each. For example, the first module is UNIX_HPC, and the material is in the repo Genome-analysis_UNIX_HPC.
